because like what did they do to you man
and how is that fair
it blows my mind that you're not angry
and hateful towards everything in the
universe
hello hello hey man how you doing today
i'm doing great how are you
uh it's an early morning but i'm doing
well so
perfect that's great i just i think our
sound levels and stuff
are good um yeah so and and what do you
go by
uh you can call me george george okay so
welcome george
i'm all up it's nice to meet you nice to
meet you
that's a cool wall you have there yeah
that's my whiteboard wall this is like
my office so
yeah that's is your so your entire wall
and your ceiling or whiteboards
uh so we didn't go as far as the ceiling
but
i thought that would be like a funny way
of of having
uh the interior so but
i didn't go that crazy it's interesting
i i gotta upgrade my
my game can i show you what i have yeah
yeah
please do
oh you're lugging that thing around
unfortunate
i just have the old-fashioned one oh
nice
you have such better handwriting this is
what i'm working on it's our
understanding of depression
oh this is very interesting nice
i like how you break that down i'm i run
into a problem with my whiteboard
because if i want to work on more than
one thing at a time i have to erase the
old thing
but um i i think maybe i should take a
page from your book and just coat the
walls with whiteboard because then i can
cover it with all my things i really
love that idea
it's not it's not that expensive so it's
convenient it's convenient
yeah cool man um and so george is there
something in particular you want to talk
about today
um honestly not really i think uh
dissecting me a little bit and maybe
like talking about my life would be
interesting
um there's a lot that's happened
over like the course of my exploration i
started
um in canada london ontario when i was
like 19
and then i'm 30 now and i'm in
california and
it's been a pretty long journey a lot of
stuff has happened
um and uh i think that
journey is interesting for a lot of
people and so
i don't really tell it much so yeah so
that sounds
fantastic is there something that you're
so tell me about your journey
yeah uh sure um so i was like 19 years
old
twitch didn't exist um it was the start
of
streaming in general there were
platforms like live stream
and x stream and so i was just like a
kid that wanted to show how good he was
at playing a certain champion in league
of legends
so i started that and i started
streaming to like five viewers
and um that uh
somehow evolved from like living in my
mom's basement
and uh uh to
to going to school and doing it um
and then i dropped out of school to like
pursue
uh gaming full-time actually was
streaming
and then i built a community for people
to connect
people use websites a lot more back then
um
and uh we had like the clg website and
it was actually a community and i love
bringing people together
and how did you come up with clg
um so
when i played this game called warcraft
3 i understand it now as
game theory but um
it's it's making assumptions on what
your enemy is going to do
over and over and over and over in which
if you
didn't make an assumption um you would
win some of the time
right you just kind of like throw out
the same
or like a simple move um
the the other the opponent like
overthinks themselves that's how i like
i thought of it when i was like 13 or
something and what
what does clg stand for uh counter logic
gaming
so the counter logic there is um sort of
not falling into the normal assumptions
of game theory
yes well
it is game theory but you know like at
the time when i was 13 like
that's what i was that's what i was
thinking in my head okay
yeah that's awesome man and what did you
play in war three
uh i played human human was my
my race yeah water elements also soapy
did you go archery
first yeah i did all the time actually
i also did blood mage too oh that's
styling man
yeah i was the i was like the styler um
i looked up to all the players that did
wacky things and thought outside the box
so that was that was my
do you remember this guy akm yes
i actually talked to akm he comes on
i've come on his stream every now and
then he still like hangs around the
twitch community
oh interesting yeah so you're back you
know the workout three days
yeah man this is boomer talk about the
old days yeah back when it was real
gaming
yeah my hero's grumpy grumpy is like my
gaming idol
yeah interesting okay he's an amazing
human being
and um and so so he's
so it sounds like you started playing
games when you were pretty young
yeah i mean i started playing games when
i was like two years old i remember like
playing dance
berenstein bears on like uh the computer
and then my dad got me a diablo before
it was released
somehow and i played that and um
yeah i just got the bad hookups he had
the he had the hookups
yeah and um what what what was growing
up like for you in ontario
um ontario is a fairly lar uh well sorry
ontario's
i don't think of it too much different
uh than la
i think the culture of people in canada
are arguably
a lot more accepting
but it was
it was pretty normal like for here in la
i don't really notice too much of a
difference
sure um there's some cultural
differences but
and can you tell me a little bit about
what home life was like for you
um so home life and thank you for uh
thank you for leading this it's hard to
talk about yourself and talk about your
journey so
oh i appreciate you doing it i noticed
you started at 19 and
i tend to get i just wanted a little bit
yeah that story no that's great that's
great
um so uh what was the last question
yeah just tell me what growing up was
like for you um oh yeah so
growing up i lived with my grandparents
and my parents
um and
my mom was hurt in an accident so her
back was out and so
you know that's why we kind of like live
together
and i had a lot of values from my
grandparents
kind of like you know when you have like
one set of parents
i had like my grandparents and then i
also had my parents too
yep thank you sorry so you're saying
that you're it sounds like your
grandmother had a
injury or you're a mom i'm sorry uh my
mom had it okay
yeah so she had a back injury she had a
back injury so yeah
um i lived with my grandparents and they
were they were like
my full-time parents and you know my mom
wasn't able to be my full-time parent
and my dad was
doing whatever he was doing what was he
doing
uh my dad was always like tinkering with
things and like finding things to do
he i don't think he really had like a
job that he was consistent with
um he just always
in canada there was this huge thing when
people were
stealing uh satellite from the us
i'm not sure with like when satellite tv
was a big thing and so he was like on
the forefront of like
tinkering with that and like he was kind
of like a
engineer type person you know okay he's
like it wasn't like
about the business part of it it was
about like oh this thing is cool this
concept is cool how like
radios connect how like satellites
connect and so
yeah that's interesting and so do you
mind if i ask george
i mean how did your how did your family
support itself
um my mom's a teacher um so she would
work and
she would work yeah okay my grandparents
were fairly well off
they came as immigrants and they had
nothing
my grandfather was actually like a
war general in greece um
he fought against turkey at some point i
can't remember the whole history but
he he didn't talk he didn't like talking
about it he he just liked
being the nice jolly grandfather
interesting
which my parents didn't really get i got
so
i love that what can you tell me a
little bit more about him
um yeah i mean he was he was a guy
that everybody when they talked about
him in the past
he was like this big scary controlling
dude that
was really really hard on his kids and
um
now i think like he
when i knew him uh and when i was
like always growing up with him he was
kind of like this
jolly guy that like puts you in the
right place if you were going too far
off but it wasn't like
in the same lens of like how they
he did it to my parents like he would be
like george
um i'm gonna drive you down like if i
was
missing school or skipping school he'd
he'd basically drive me down to
places where uh in the city where it was
drug ridden full and
full of crime filled with crime like
just like this is what real life is
if you don't succeed in life this is
where you can fall like the depths of it
and so like it's important to to know
these things and he wasn't trying to
like shock me or scare me
is more like this is reality and
don't fall in a trap like thinking this
is all a game interesting so what i'm
hearing
it's quite a powerful image actually
yeah
yeah um and what i'm hearing is that
you know it sounds like he used to be
controlling but instead what he did with
you was sort of
tried to inform you and then also sort
of respect your ability to like make a
decision so he kind of says like
here are your options but it's
ultimately your choice
and maybe with your parents he sort of
didn't do that as much he was like this
is what you're gonna do
exactly yeah it sounds like you respect
him a lot because of it
oh yeah my grandfather uh was very
very like he was a good human being
and he was very uh i would say he was
like very punctual with his behavior i
don't know how to describe it he was
very consistent
um same with my grandma my grandma is
just like an incredible human being like
strongest woman i've ever met in my life
um
but you know that's probably because
their lives were very very hard so they
had to be
what what made her so strong what do you
mean by that um
she still like garden for like three
hours on end
she's like in her 80s um her sisters
like
10 mountain goats by themselves in the
middle of nowhere
on on like up large steep mountains
um in greece yeah
she would beat me up and like wrestle me
like
for a significant period of my life and
she was jacked
she was legitimately strong um
and like her punctuality was crazy um
she never missed uh ever since she came
to canada
she never missed one day working for 40
years
but it was it was like the spirit of it
that she had which was really
interesting
it wasn't punctuality for punctuality's
sake it was the spirit of
being strong uh
uh for others that's that's what it was
about
sounds like you love and respect your
grandparents a lot oh yeah
they're they're they're they're like my
idols yeah
you know this may sound funny to have
them well this may sound kind of weird
george but i'm i'm almost hearing like
this is maybe unfair but i'm almost
hearing like a little bit of a
i don't know you just speak so highly of
your grandparents and i don't quite hear
that when you talk about your parents
well yeah um my father uh
my father divorced my mom when i was
like
13. um and so my mom was a single mother
and she was very very busy with like
work
and school and and she's kind of like a
kind woman
so she um
didn't ask my father for child support
she was basically like hey let's try to
keep this civil
like you go do your own thing i'm gonna
live my own life
and i'm gonna try my best to like raise
the kids
um and so
i think mom and dad weren't there as
much
as grandfather and grandmother and and
especially in a value sense and a
thought sense
i think when you're not in the motion of
things and you're not doing things so
much
you have time to reflect on what values
you want to carry across
who you want to be um and so
i i think my grandparents were
like very cognizant of like who they
wanted to be and who they wanted me to
be
and who they what values they wanted to
instill in me
and what i'm hearing from you is maybe
your parents weren't like that
no well i think my mom was just like
trying to get me
to get past like not failing right she
was she was keeping me above
water uh and she she fought to keep me
above water
um why were you below water in the first
place
um i think this is this is a good
question
um so i was always
addicted to games uh i love
the challenge and the nature of games
like school wasn't challenging for me
um schools i would yeah schools for
actual noobs um
i i would go into like you know warcraft
three i was like top of the
top of the us east ladder and you know i
had like a lot of people i respected
there and
i had a huge level of respect for my
opponents
that's why my name is hotshot gg it's
not because of my initials it's because
i had like a huge respect for my
opponents and so
deconstructing why i lost was like
really important to me
um and deconstructing how i could
improve
is really important to me so you you
call that an addiction
i i called it an addiction because i
didn't want to do anything else
all i wanted to do was get lost in those
worlds
and um
and i couldn't force myself to do
anything else
it just wasn't of my interest and maybe
it isn't an addiction maybe it's just a
passion um
i think when we go into that period of
time
a lot of people would have called it an
addiction
and they would have claimed it wasn't a
good addiction
um as i talk of it now i don't think of
it in addiction any way shape or form
even if i play a jillion hours a day um
but that's like that's the sentiment
towards gaming
right it's it's changed over the past uh
couple of years uh or not a couple of
years past 10 years
so much so george help me understand
what was it about
the game that was so attractive to you
and
what was it about real life that was so
unattractive yeah so
i wouldn't say real life was
unattractive i would say school was
unattractive
a lecturer talking to you um and just
telling you to like write notes
and like in in my opinion the problems
weren't that difficult they weren't
i wasn't constantly evolving and
engaging it was more like i was
following a process uh
that that someone was like hey abc
and then i go to i come to school and be
like a b c it was a very
boring uninteractive
and um
it was more like follow the steps yep
rather than
um rather than uh
here's a sophisticated challenge that we
let you explore yourself
in and we let you challenge at your pace
at your level
um you know there's some people that are
stuck in gold their whole life
right and some people that finally climb
to platinum and there's people that
reach the top echelon and inspire like
millions across the world right and so
the freedom of gaming is that you really
you're just put in that leaderboard
system you put into that matchmaking
system and where you can get like
instant feedback instant results um
[Music]
which is a problem itself but yeah
yeah and and so you say that your mom
struggled to keep you above
water what do you mean by that uh just
like
getting through school my teachers
really really
loved me in one sense which was like i
was a nice kid
um i was very intelligent
but i didn't go to school i missed like
381 days of school in my
in my high school years um and
i stayed home a lot uh and i barely
passed all right well sorry i passed
with like 70s
uh like high 70s
um how did you stay home so much from
school
uh i actually faked sick which
if there's karma in the world uh it
turned into like
real sick somehow um but
uh what i would do is like my i would
say my like stomach hurts i can't go
to school and like my mom bought it a
lot um
and um
george i don't know how we're ever going
to get to 19
yeah no i know i mean we can speed it up
no no i i think my point is that i i
didn't mean to say that we should speed
it up
what i what i meant to say is that i
think there's a lot of
important stuff here and if you're if
you're okay with it
maybe we'll kind of focus on what you're
sharing yeah
so i i think like to be candid with you
right
i'm very like
i have thick skin i've had thick skin
because of my time in clg and doing what
i
doing what i did um and i also have the
i think a strong ability to
not be defensive and really to just look
look
to help others and so talking about my
life and being very open with
things is about helping others right and
so
that's why i'm like dissect me because i
think there's a lot of
things that i can talk about to help
be relatable to a lot of young people
and also maybe like give them some life
lessons about
uh what i've learned and and hopefully
give them some guidance in that in that
regard
okay i said something provocative no oh
yeah oh yeah sorry go ahead
i just feel pretty think about whether i
want to say this or not say it
promise i promise you can say it unless
unless you think it's gonna
affect others negatively
so why does someone fake sick
i have no idea other than to just like
escape responsibility
uh sure so so i think escaping
responsibility
is true i would say overall avoidance
i think it's an avoidance strategy what
if i told you that your altruism
could also be an avoidance strategy that
your thickness
yeah is just a it's it's a healthier
manifestation
of whatever caused you to fake sick
it's still a form of avoidance that by
devoting yourself to others
you can avoid
looking at yourself i would say that's
only half true
i think the process of me looking at
myself has has been happening
and i've had a lot of great human beings
in my life that have helped me get there
and i went through a lot of bad stuff to
get out of that um
and i think my altruism is
twofold it's like i'm in a pro i'm in
the process of evolving
um so i would
i would agree and disagree i think maybe
my ideals
are too idealistic and it's not like in
this realm of
of i'm being like fully real with myself
but i think it's in the right place
i might get a little too excited and
jump jump the gun
a little bit but um i know where i'm
going
and i'm very like i feel it as well as
think it
i can get behind that okay cool yeah
so uh is it okay if we talk a little bit
more about feeling sick
sure and then you said something about
karma what do you mean by that
you said that so yeah yeah so i um
yeah it was like a stomach thing and
like i was like yeah i have the stomach
thing
and i went to the doctors and they
actually like were like hey
your kid might have ibs i think it was
irritable syndrome
yeah um and then like
potentially acid reflux and that's
what's causing these issues and now i
have acid reflux
and uh it's actually caused some issues
um which is
you know it's almost like pinocchio you
know
yeah so how does that work
uh i don't know i i i think that uh it
could just be coincidence
but uh i think it's a funny uh it's a
funny uh
thing to think about i don't think we'll
ever know or figure out what
why or how that happens but
um coincidence let's call it let's chalk
it up as that
i don't think so man really yeah
what's your understanding of what ibs is
uh ibs uh
is so i i haven't thought about this
since i was a kid
right but i thought it was
um something to related to like a
physical part of your stomach
not responding correctly
that's like uh somewhat incorrect
so so so yeah so so the first thing is
ibs is irritable bowel syndrome
and ibs is one of this new wave of
physical diseases
that are probably psychosomatic oh
interesting right so that's part of the
reason when when they can't find
something in particular wrong with you
like there isn't a cause
for your distress but there is a problem
with your function so they're also
called functional diseases
so like like let me just put it this way
like so if you think about a functional
disease so a functional disease is like
it's a disease of function but like
not a disease of cause so if i have a
gunshot wound
there is a clear cause as to why my
function is impaired
there are some diseases where you have
the functional impairment like something
isn't working right but it doesn't
necessarily have a causative agent got
it
okay it makes sense and and so i i know
you kind of
laugh about karma and coincidence but i
i don't think it's really coincidence at
all that
you were probably going through and we
can sort of see touches of this right so
like
sure so you were probably going through
a fair amount of psychological distress
around the age of 13.
uh yeah i think
maybe i i developed like some coping
mess
coping mechanisms of rationalism and
just being like
hey it's not logical to feel pain hey
like my dad's an idiot like don't feel
sad about that
you know like all that stuff yeah so so
this is
like this is a neat thing right so the
whole principle of the body
when you bury emotion do you know how it
comes out
it forces itself out i'm not sure how
yeah it forces itself out through the
body
yeah oh interesting
right so it's got to come out the
otherwise but i mean
there i'm sure that there could have
been a lot of common commonality in
terms of like different things that
could have been wrong for me
right and i just find it curious that it
was my stomach
right like it could you could apply this
to so many different parts of my body
um but the thing i was like trying to
use to fake became
the the specific point you know
yeah so there are physiologic reasons
for that
really yeah so that's crazy first
question is do you know
what the most common treatment for
medication treatment
for depression is do you happen to know
that
what do we use to treat depression do
you know
uh i don't know actually so like
antidepressants the most common one is
something called
a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor
or an ssri
okay which essentially increases the
level of serotonin activity in the brain
so interesting side note which is do you
know
where serotonin is the most plentiful in
your body
no idea it's in the brain can you guess
where the second most
plentiful place for serotonin in the
body is
i'm getting this is the stomach
absolutely and you would be correct
okay so there there's actually a lot of
growing
evidence that mental health
and your gi system are intrinsically
connected
in fact there's an entire burgeoning
field of science called gut brain
health and this is the wildest
experiment that i tell people about
because it's my favorite example
they took a group of depressed mice okay
and you can tell a mouse is depressed in
one of two ways one is you put it
into like a novel environment and mice
tend to be like curious creatures and so
if it's a healthy mouse
it'll like get curious and explore
things if it's a depressed mouse it'll
just sit there and not do much
that's the more humane version the
second way you assess depression in the
mouse
is by putting it in a chamber with water
where there's nothing
there's nothing to there's nothing for
it to like stand on
and then a healthy mouse will struggle
to
swim until it gets tired and kind of
starts to drown which is sort of
inhumane
whereas the depressed mouths will give
up very easily
got it they don't actually let them
drown they you know pull them out but
they see how long they they try um
so they took a depressed mouse and then
they took its poop
and they transplanted its poop to a
healthy mouse
and what they found is that the
transplanted poop
led to depression interesting
i would buy that it's weird yeah
and and so we also know that like
physiologically like when you're
feeling stress or depression so one of
the
one of the nine diagnostic criteria for
depression is changes in
appetite or weight gain
got it so nine things that sort of we
look for in depression so the stomach
and the brain are actually
very closely linked yeah and i
i don't think it's much of a i don't
think it's karma per se
but we know that for example like
children who are distressed will
experience stomach aches and that
oftentimes
stomach aches are sore when we say
psychological in origin it doesn't mean
that there isn't something going on in
the stomach
there is something going on in the
stomach it's just that our brain and
it's
wild but our brain and our bodies are
actually connected
and our psychology and physiology are
and ibs is a very good example
of one of these conditions where a lot
of people will have treatment
and then it won't really work because
it's unclear exactly what's wrong
and then they'll come to me and then
i'll treat them for a little while or
ibs will go away
i i i think it's interesting because
the the part i think is fascinating
is when i when i saw it before the
the brain and the body being linked and
being able to
cause harm to each other made sense
right
but it's the specific quality of it
being linked to the
the stomach or the mouth like i've read
some stuff about like
potentially like healthy uh
you know gums and gum function and just
like
you know mouth bacteria lead to like
something related to the brain right
yep and so i thought it was like more
uniform
like if you start having like a lot of
stress
and anxiety and all these things that
you start to take a
full toll on your body but i i it must
be more specific than that right
yeah so you're saying that your global
body function is affected equally
yes yeah so it turns out that that's not
necessarily the case and that there is
specificity
um you said something else there that i
wanted to
mention for a second but i lost track of
it anyway
let's find out um oh yeah you said that
one is able to hurt the other
yes so that's not how i think about it
i think about i don't think they hurt
each other i think they're on the same
team
and what they're doing is transferring
some amount of damage from one to the
other
okay fair enough i agree that um
so let's kind of go back to this so
can you tell me a little bit about how
you felt about your dad divorcing your
mom
um yeah so i rationalized it
when i was 13 that
my dad's just not a great person he's
not a great
father and he did something bad to my
mother
and like i need to
like and he wasn't really like he he
wasn't like that
emotionally connected to me i guess
maybe when i was a kid i had like that
image of the app
like him giving me diablo and like
playing some games with me when i was
very young but at a certain point he
just stopped being there
and i think if he was there more or i
didn't have my grandfather
i would have been i would have been like
i think more stricken by that
um but i just rationalized as like hey
not a good dude
my mom's a good person my grandparents
are good people i have my family
so he can go do his own thing
why do you use the word rationalize uh
because it helped me uh
make sense of everything
like think about it i play warcraft
three
how i win is not through emotion it's
through pure logic
right it's like a and so
i bring the game components into my real
life
that's what got me to where i am now um
is is figuring out how to pull that
those those learnings and the way my
brain works pattern recognition blah
blah
into but i brought it into the i brought
it into the real world maybe too much
why do you say you brought it into the
real world too much uh
that's this is later stuff this is like
when you realize
like how things are linked in your
childhood and how you grow up to
to like form who you are and stuff
isn't that what we're talking about uh i
mean if you
uh
you kind of okay i i guess i guess i i
thought
we were going through like a more
positive sure chronologically yeah
yeah let me just george let me ask you
questions if you want to connect
are you in a relationship right now yeah
how's that going uh very well
um okay yeah sorry i tend to jump out
around a little bit
um so i'm gonna go back to this idea of
rationalization for a second
sure so if you're rationalizing that
implies
to me like just your the way that you
talk about it implies to me that there
are other things within you
okay right so if you say
like if you say i rationalized it to
myself dot dot dot
which implies that you're taking and you
used a really good analogy with the
gaming right so like
you have emotions and you have rational
thought and what we're going to do is
push our emotions to the side and we're
going to focus on the rational
and then you even did a great great job
then you said i took the strategy and
then i applied it to my real life
which implies that there were other
things that you thought or felt which
had
been pushed to the side in favor of
rationality
yeah so i can actually really remember
that time period
because like i love it for a lot of
reasons
but um and also like it was hard for a
lot of reasons
um i
wasn't that strongly connected
with my dad like i it didn't
it didn't hurt i think other things in
my life
like seeing my parents cry or seeing my
mom cry
see my grandmother cry like going
through hardships with my family
that stuff hurt right and i like i
sucked it up to be
strong because that's like kind of like
the status quo for the
men in the family but as far as my
connection to my dad
it's never really hurt it never really
hurt
um maybe that's weird but i can like
firmly remember that
yeah okay i i think i i can get behind
that because you seem very confident
that
your dad is sort of sounding like just
another dude he's just another dude
he's he's just another dude i mean he
wasn't around much right as i
explained earlier um
he brought me diablo which is my
favorite memory right
uh but other than that it's kind of like
blank
yeah right do you remember feeling a
particular way not so much about him
just being another dude but the fact
that you
grew up with just another dude for a dad
instead of a real dad
um my grandfather was like my real dad
for for me
and so like if i didn't have my
grandfather i'd probably be
more of a mess but he was he was there
for me all the time
okay so i lived with him a lot yeah
i mean i i think you yeah you talk about
him
with a lot of respect and love and it
sounds like he really was there for you
and did all the things that a dad
should do like you know teach
you take the time to like teach you
things and show you things
and also like respect you enough to kind
of make your own decisions have the
faith in you that you're going to make
the right ones
um it sounds like he was an awesome
person also we're just an awesome person
yep and you're talking you you use the
past tense when you talk about your
grandfather in the present tense when
you talk about your grandmother
yeah my grandfather passed away uh
while i was in the us um he
this is where we're jumping a little bit
but i'm fine because i think you want to
do that
um i was
illegally in the u.s um
because the visa situations were hard at
the start of the esports
like my visa was one of the first
esports visas ever
and i was operating clg and what
happened was if i went back to the u.s
i couldn't continue clg and i couldn't
continue just gaming in general and he
passed away while we were
while i was in u.s and he was in canada
and he told me
to like i was like hey i want to come
back
he said don't come back like stay
in the u.s like i love you
you don't have to do this like grandma
knows
like just stay there um i'm gonna be
fine
and obviously he wasn't fine but uh
that was super hard for me
yeah was that like not going back
um
i knew what he was trying to say
um i knew he was like be strong george
like i i know what mission i put you on
right i know who i wanted you to be like
keep doing it like i'm proud of you
that's what he
that's what he was saying and like i
think
he was also trying to save me some like
emotional damage too
of well maybe like emotional relief with
everybody
i i like i get really sad when my
grandma gets sad and so like being there
with everybody
probably would have uh uh
probably would have been a huge burden
while trying to like manage clg
run clg and play on the team like i was
just
so overwhelmed with so many things at
that time
sounds like he was looking out for you
yeah he was
always even towards the end
put you first mm-hmm
sounds
i can also see how altruism isn't just a
defense mechanism for you because i
think you learned
i'm very sure i learned it yeah
sounds like you miss him a lot of course
we all do yeah
what are you feeling right now
i'm sad um very sad like i
kind of feel like i want to cry but
i'm stopping myself because
one i don't want to cry on stream
and two
that's actually probably the right thing
to do
based on what i want to do um
i have a really
and and i have a really uh this is
sorry my thoughts are getting confused
my feelings right now um
i think a lot of the problems that
people
have are they're not able they're not
able to connect with emotions
like people aren't resonating with their
true self and their truths
their true feelings and so
part of
me accepting to come here is to
really really
show that i'm like a human being and
that we're all human beings
right and i think
we forget that very often um
and i'm sure that you're aware of that
that paradigm just being very true in
this space
it seems to me like the emotions are
even more powerful as you say that
yes of course why
i mean
you have to really like hone in on some
of the stuff that's happened
um and some of the people that have come
on here right
i have a lot of respect for you um
[Music]
because you're able to
get people to a place where they're
honest to help others
that's that's what i see you as um
and so um
you know for reckful for a lot of
different people
and influencers streamers whatever you
want to call them
um it's really hard even people
that play sports um to commit to like
a journey to be in front of
media and others it's
very hard there's a huge cost associated
to it
that we all just shove under
what's that cost it's our like humanity
really is you feel like you've
sacrificed that
oh for sure i sacrificed that a lot
um and i see it doesn't matter what part
of success that you go to
it's prevalent everywhere it's like a
disease like
everywhere it doesn't matter if it's
if if you're you know
at the bottom of a company if you're at
the top of a company
it doesn't matter if you're just like
someone that
you know is just playing games that uh
and and and are part of these
communities like it's everywhere
um so yeah
we're losing our humanity we're losing
our humanity
can i think for a second sure
i'm gonna lighten the mood a touch
because you've told me that you don't
want to cry so
i think that that was a defense
mechanism
not wanting to cry if i want my father
to say that
i came here on a mission in which is to
talk about things to help
the people and if you think honestly
think
that i can help other people by talking
about this
those things that i'm okay talking about
them why do you need to help other
people
because it's important to me that people
don't suffer the same way i did and
that's important to me
[ __ ] where'd i begin dude uh
i didn't know i had feelings i've
rationalized that i had feelings
up until like a year and a half ago
and then the start of even recognizing
that i had feelings
was like i didn't know what the [ __ ] was
going on
that's basically what it was what
happened a year and a half ago
uh
um god damn okay i
i i would say that the biggest thing and
i i hate to talk about this
this is where we get a little
i went to my first rave
uh
i don't like talking about this because
i think you know where it goes
and i think it's a very uh
maybe maybe no okay okay fine i'll just
talk about it
i took a drug
and i used to s okay no i should talk
about this
[ __ ] um
i took a drug and then in the moment
i started feeling and then i recognized
how other people would feel and i
recognized
what that felt like um
and then i've tried to like
understand how i felt and what the
differences of like how i was feeling at
the time versus how i normally am
try to understand how i can get there
like mentally
spiritually like physically without the
need of that
um but that was like the catalyst
to like really push me in that way and
what did you realize about
how other people felt
um
that they were suffering a lot of people
were suffering
and a lot of people were able to have
fun and enjoy the company of each other
um just like everything that has to do
with emotions
like to be able to like really feel what
it's like to be that other person
um i'm not like
you know i don't fully understand it to
this day right like i'm still learning
um but yeah i get it
did you feel somehow responsible for
their suffering
no i don't i think
i don't feel responsible for
for like the suffering of those around
me
um i think there is a level of
responsibility i have to like the gaming
community
because i was like a leader in it i was
a part of it
and um but like if you ask me like am i
responsible for everybody that suffers
around me i'd say no
do you feel responsible for anyone who
suffers around you
um no i think i i think i'm
i think i'm there to help people that
are trying to listen
i i like you can't help someone that
doesn't want to help themselves
right so i think bearing that
responsibility
is a little too much um
do you help yourself yeah
i do i do help myself a lot okay um
but yeah this is this is like very
complex and it's just like you know it's
a lot
um but what's feel free to ask questions
um
so the way my brain works is like i
think of
50 things at once and how they're all
interconnected
um and so there's like
it's really hard for me to speak out
loud i usually think first and then
speak
but when thoughts get very complicated
in my head
it really screws up my communication
so do you feel like you're not
communicating well right now
um i have no idea
i would say my communication is like
generally not that great
uh but yeah
i don't know
can i think for a second sure go ahead
[Music]
so i'm a little confused
sure um and i i don't think it's because
you're communicating poorly i think it's
just
i understood where we were and i sort of
understand where we are now
i don't really understand how we got
from a to b because something changed
very rapidly we were talking about your
grandfather
understandable that you have emotions
there
and then we started talking about like
the hurt of the world and that seemed to
evoke even more emotion
yes and and i got the sense that
i almost feel like i imagine you know
they're
i'm from texas and in texas you know
like oil fields and so you'd have a
farmer that would be digging a ditch
and they'd they'd hit something and then
oil would start spurting out of the
ground and it's sort of like wait where
did that come from
clearly something there clearly
something important
not what i expected i was looking for a
potato
and i found one yeah yeah and so so
i'm kind of trying to understand a
little bit i'm just kind of i'm sharing
with you what i'm processing right now
which is sort of like where to go from
here and what's useful
and um because i understood where we
were
i was sort of like i mean i wouldn't
quite say leading but like i
kind of had a couple of hypotheses i'll
all
maybe help you uh and just speak out
loud um
okay fundamentally like
i feel obligated
to try to make the world a better place
and because i see the human cost
of everything that we're doing uh within
our country
uh within with our within my friend
groups
just around the world i consume just
like a huge
amount of information right of so many
different fields
right uh and i i hit the surface level
of all them
but i see them connect right and and
and i also ask so many different people
like the question why and i asked it so
many different
ways to try to understand uh
understand what's going on in the world
and
i i'm stopping asking why
and i finally am like building a
conclusion
and from that conclusion
[Music]
i've found some sort of motivation to
reach deeper into myself
to be a different kind of person um
and try to help other people
and i'm going through great lengths of
like really challenging myself
like i have all the money i could
possibly
want like i have a house i have good
friends
i have very limited i have
very low responsibility right now like
but
i think i found a purpose in life that i
really care about
um and i'm just chasing that purpose
right now
what do you feel when you say that
um
feels good
you know it seems like like you're on
the verge of tears but i get the sense
of a powerful sort of like
resolve you know i i'm getting the
valence of emotion as being positive and
sometimes what i'm i'm sort of getting
is that you're not
it just has a physiologic effect right
this is what we were talking about
for a while is that it just has an
effect on your body when you
think certain thoughts and you feel that
purpose and your body just has to
like you see how some of the weight of
what's on
in your mental space has to be carried
by your body
yes and your body's just carrying it as
best as it can which is sort of like
physical emotional expression
yeah what was the conclusion you came to
um the conclusion is that
everybody is suffering more and more
we're on a train of
like critical malfunction
and it's getting worse no one's
recognizing
the problem um the problem
there being like we are disconnected
from our emotions
we are losing our humanity and
we're losing the ability to help each
other
uh for this needless pursuit of wanting
more and more and more
and also i think they're underlying to
all that
is we use a lot of rationale
and ideas to stop ourselves from
admitting the truth
or even searching for the truth um what
i see
is it doesn't matter how high you climb
billionaires millionaires i've talked to
them
everybody is building this layer of
rationale
on why they do things and
no one's searching to see if that's like
the truth right if if their version of
reality is even
like congruent with with what's
happening in the world with other
people's experiences with other people's
emotions
um i think there's some people that are
doing it but
yeah you know i i think the challenge
when i listen to you
is that sure you know earlier i kind of
mentioned
i don't know if your altruism is like a
manifestation of avoidance as well and
you kind of said i agree and disagree
so once again i don't i don't think this
is mutually exclusive but i don't know
if what you just said
is you know a quite like a tarma for the
for life or if it's the mother lode of
all projective identification
yeah i don't
i would have to be
i can't i can't know like right like i
because just the way that you're
describing things you sound like you're
talking about yourself
yes i know i know i know but uh
that's how i help uh
uh linking it to myself
is just a way of
helping me articulate it
if i like think in my head i think about
all the recent conversations
of other people where we just dig under
the surface a little bit
and just like really connect with each
other
and i just see all of them
having a lot of similarity in pain
and experiences
what about your own pain
what do you do what do you mean what do
you do with your pain
uh i share it with other people um
i ask them to walk me through like how
i'm feeling
uh i try to talk talk with them to
are you in pain george
no i mean like generally speaking
i would say like my general state is a
little bit stressed
um you seem to be in intense pain to me
really yeah when you talk about these
things
okay sorry this is like i think our
communication
is falling apart a little bit um
this is where i think i become a bad
communicator
uh and oh god brian would be so
i have a roommate named brian and he's
probably like one of the
greatest people i've ever met in my life
um
and
he's helped me become
a better person and he like through
a lot of communication that we have with
each other
i will i will say things that don't line
up with
who i am very frequently and what i
think
and i communicate like the wrong
sentiment and
very frequently he would say like george
i've known you for like
a year i know that's not what you're
saying uh
and then he would like correct my
i'm just i'm having a really hard time
communicating right now i i don't know
how to do i think you're doing
a great job communicating oh thank you
so that makes me feel better i have a
couple of counterpoints so when i say i
think
i see a lot of pain right now that's not
me misinterpreting it's my attempt at
clarifying to make sure that we're on
the same page
because communicate communication
problems are inevitable
right so when you talk about the
suffering of the world and how we're
losing humanity
i almost see in you a manifestation
of that pain when you talk about it you
talk
so deeply and with such conviction
that it hurts you to see this happening
all around you
correct okay i'm on the same page there
i
i was misinterpreting like
the pain as being like always
pain like george you're like always in
the state of pain
okay yeah i don't know why i thought
there or like where i got there
i i i couldn't make the connection i
mean you hurt
man like when you talk about it like i
see hurt
in you of course yeah of course
i see others suffering and i think about
how much i was suffering and
i just want i did
i want to help people like i i don't
know tell me about your suffering
um oh like this is maybe why
chronological order would have helped
okay
i went through a period
where
i went down what i would call a dark
path
um and
i was acting with the sense of just like
this is how everybody does it this is
how
people should do it um
[Music]
and this is just the way things are
and when operating in
esports
a lot of the early days were very
rough like cheating
lying manipulating those
qualities are still ever present and
maybe even worse in esports now
and those values conflicted
with the ideals of
the people that i love and
have cared for or have have cared for me
my entire life and when i got into
esports and i got into business
i suffered so much pain by following
those ideals
that i shoved them all away
and i just started operating like
everybody else
so here's what i'm hearing
the way you behaved in esports would
have
would be something that your grandfather
was ashamed of
no i don't think he would
be ashamed of it um
[Music]
he would be sad
right because i think he's someone that
fought for a better world for us to live
in right
but you know someone that has lived in
war
knows the importance of
not going back there right and
for me
what's happening all around and this is
what i feel
is we're almost like at war with each
other
uh
and the humanity and being nice to each
other
and being a thoughtful person and trying
to help each other is
isn't what's happening like
it's it's like we're always at war
um and so i don't think he would be
ashamed of me
i think he would just be sad that like
the world is
in in my view like not changing we're
not
trying to build a better future i think
that's
the part of him that would be sad
how do you feel about being a
participant of that war
because it sounds like that's what you
did
yeah uh
i
feel responsible
but i don't put
the weight of it all on me
i i recognize
that i'm inherently a good person or i
try to be a good person
but man it's [ __ ] hard it's really
[ __ ] hard
i can't tell you like if you're trying
to be a good person
and everybody else is
really trying to look after themselves
and be selfish
and they start hurting you they start
backstabbing you they start breaking
your trust
you have two choices you either get the
[ __ ] out
or you survive that's it
and to survive you start to fall into
the system
that's just how it is
so you know george i'm hearing something
kind of interesting
which is that like sure underneath all
of your statements
i think guilt would fit well
but i've i've asked you i've asked you
several times kind of nudging around
guilt yeah but you seem to block it
you don't seem to agree when i sort of
toss out guilt
like so for example i think yeah yeah so
i i feel like i'm guilty for jumping on
the train
right but i'm not gonna beat myself
up over uh
it entirely because
i don't know how else to say it
there were so many [ __ ] people
that were trying to push me on that
[ __ ] train
and i i feel like an amount of guilt
right but
this is where i think it's a huge [ __ ]
it's it's a huge
problem so
you know what i mean like uh george so
yeah so i i can't tell
if you're really far forward or really
stuck
can i share with you my dilemma yes
please i i
can't tell if you're halfway to
enlightenment or
on stage zero so let me explain to you
so when we talk about
guilt what do you respond with
you say yeah i feel some guilt
but a lot of people were trying to push
me
it was the environment i was in it
wasn't my fault
that's what you say does that make sense
yes so what do we call that when someone
says
i did something bad but it wasn't my
fault what's what do we say that that
person is doing absolving response of
responsibility through what
through deflection through
rationalization
through justification right got it okay
it was the world
it was the world we lived in it's what
everyone did
either i could fail or i could play the
game it's rationalizing
okay it's what you do
yeah right that's your archmage with
your water elemental every game you know
your archmage
get your water elemental it's the
strategy that you use
and you have okay
i think and maybe this is like helpful
as
a connector i've thought about this a
lot
right and so i can tell you've thought
about it a lot
okay so i
i didn't do like okay so
if you're talking about esports as an
industry okay
i think it's clg
i tried my best to
be a good person that and i don't think
i did a whole lot of
wrong okay so like i think i did
i i think i think i tried to do
the best i could
and
i
[Music]
i think i always challenged myself
to try to be a good person in all this
and then something
bad happened
and then i jumped out of the way i
jumped like i got away from esports
entirely
and i think when i when i talk about my
inter when if you were to talk to me
about my interpersonal relationships
and how business manifested in them and
the pain that caused
i would feel infinite guilt
i would feel so much guilt and i do feel
so much guilt
but
when it comes to esports
i don't feel as guilty i don't know how
to just i don't know how else to
describe it yeah
yeah so george we've got a couple of
options okay
sure so first of all um
i just want to commend you for bringing
a hundred percent
today thanks i i can see that you're
bringing everything you've got
and and we're getting the synthesis
essence and results of all of your
reflection all of your exploration all
of your investigation
and i think i'm i'm grateful that you're
sharing all of this with us
thank you a couple of thoughts that i
have is like we have to pick a direction
okay so one is you know i find myself
being curious about
you're kind of talking in in in vague
terms like you said something happened
and then i jumped out of the way
so that seems emotionally charged to me
i don't know if we're steering clear of
that because of drama and things like
that you don't want to disclose that
or if you're just trying to sketch in
broad strokes and i should ask more
yeah this is hard i'll just i'll just
like be outright
um
around 2015.
[Music]
um
something how uh [ __ ] i'm okay
george yeah
i was giving you two options and we
don't have to talk about that if you
don't want to
i was experienced it's it's i i i want
to talk about it because i
i haven't really got another like real
serious opinion on this
it's just kind of like it just goes
under the bridge
and i think that this is like something
that has i carry with me today
something i'm really passionate about
and it kind of hurts me to see
um
which is when narratives can get
out of control truth doesn't matter
anymore
it's about the messaging
it's about what you can convince people
and the winner writes history in a sense
and for me there was a time in esports
and in the part the part of this is like
i forgiven these people
for doing this to me and causing me like
a lot of pain i spent like a year and a
half in isolation
like pretty much just by myself in an
apartment
in the dark because of how much pain i
went through
and i've like forgiven these people
if they ask for your forgiveness
no
long story short
maybe long story short it's not i'm
really sensitive about this
uh okay there was a point
in history clg history where
someone on clg had a lot of credibility
in a false narrative
about their character
and what ended up happening is that
person did
they betrayed many people within clg
they utterly betrayed me
they use their social leverage
to change the conversation and narrative
when i was trying
to do the right thing
and what happened was
millions of people started
to say things about me
believe things about me believe things
about
everything that happened everything that
was happening that was completely
untrue and i tried to stop it
i tried to tell
the reality of the situation i had
people that were like
george i've got your back like let's
tell the truth together
just jump out of the way
and it affected my relationships
it reflected it affected clg
and it ultimately affected me
so bad that i can't begin to describe
how much i hurt
and you know they just
got away with it and
there's nothing i could do about it
there's really nothing good
it's so hard so hard when you try to be
a good person
there's so many people doing bad things
and you just have to let it go
uh
the reasons people give you is so [ __ ]
up
that person had more social capital than
you
that person's more well-liked than you
that person's more tactical than you
no one cares about being a good person
no one cares about helping each other
they're all out there just to [ __ ]
big buddy
and get things for themselves
it is so obviously apparent
and we just walk through accepting it
so [ __ ] dude
it's really really [ __ ] up
and it's not just in esports it's like
everywhere
george yeah go ahead
the part of me that was like struggling
is
i feel this with myself right
and i extrapolate that
right and i see it
happening in like different aspects of
life right it's not just esports
the function of
trying to subvert people's feelings
their emotions how we treat them
for money
it's [ __ ] up dude i don't know how
else to say it
[Music]
i'm gonna just collect my thoughts
because i i think george you just shared
so much yeah i know i wanna
i i appreciate it it was powerful man
i'm just trying to think about
how to meet you where you're at sure
i can pull myself back um you don't need
to do that
i prefer that i rise to your level as
opposed to you pull back
fair enough
all right so i'm gonna just start you
need a minute
no i'm good okay i'm gonna start talking
sure chances are i'm i'm gonna be wrong
okay i hope this will help you but i
don't know if you're gonna like to hear
it
okay so
george sometimes when people try to go
out and fix the world
it doesn't come from the world it comes
from them
and in fact i would argue that most
people who try to go out and fix the
world
it's rooted in them
can you repeat that again yeah so most
people who go out there
fix the world yeah it's not doesn't
actually come from the world it comes
from them so like this is just
you know really simple like if you think
about
um you know why do people
adopt particular causes it's because the
cause is near and dear to their heart
right i don't hear you trying to save
the rainforests
maybe you are but like there's something
about
the suffering of the world in the loss
of our humanity that hits home with you
so overall like some time ago i said i
can't tell if this is the mother lode of
projection
and i'm going to go ahead and lean into
that a little bit
okay because i i think that the first
thing that you've got to do george
is not fix the world it's to heal
yourself
because you are really really hurt man
and i've tried to like ask you in a
couple of ways and i think that you have
been on a journey of a lot of genuine
growth
but i think that you you're getting
tripped up with this beautiful thing
that you just said
you feel pain and then you extrapolate
it out to other people's pain
and so i think the reason that you half
agree and half disagree and we're like
we're uh a hundred percent together
fifty percent of the time
in this conversation that's just been
the way that i felt it's like we're
a hundred percent aligned except like
suddenly like something
we're like you're like no sort of i sort
of agree with you but like here's this
other piece
and i think what you're doing just this
whole thing is like you start with a
feeling you start with a personal
experience and then you extrapolate it
and by that extrapolation you move away
from yourself and towards the outside
world
towards rationality towards all these
other things making the world a better
place which has this emotional root
but fundamentally at the end of the day
you're moving away from yourself
in order to fix the world's problems
which i think is a noble thing in bro
i'm behind you
i appreciate it i think we're actually
fighting the same battle
we're on the same team i'm grateful you
came here all that stuff is true
and i think it's like not you're leaving
something about yourself incomplete
and you've made a lot of progress
because you can sort of own some of the
you've like discovered your feelings
you've discovered connection
you know it sounds like you've really
worked on yourself you went through a
dark
you know trial of your life
and i i don't think any of that is false
or anything i don't think this is really
the mother lode of projection i don't
think this is all like baked in [ __ ]
what it feels to me is more than
anything else incomplete
and i think it could be that yeah yeah
and so i think like let's just start
with this idea of guilt so like
why are you so respon why are you so
so you know the the biggest
advocates against
you know drunk driving can sometimes be
the people themselves who drove drunk
right and they say that like yeah yeah
of course
and so there's a part of me that that
still thinks that like you know i ask
you like a couple times do you feel
responsible for other
people's suffering like i asked you like
early on because i was sniffing
what i'm sniffing from you more than
anything else is a profound sense of
guilt
and it's some of these things like when
i ask you would your grandfather be
ashamed of you
i think that you try to be a good person
which in turn makes it so much more
devastating
when you find yourself giving in to
temptation
for sure i would expect self-loathing
from you
self-loathing like hate the person i
am yeah absolutely
because you try to be a good person and
you weren't for a time
yes and i
experienced amount of self-loathing
already
yeah and so
i'm less about experiencing more
self-loathing
and more about growing
understanding myself understanding
people
yep yeah i i'm with you so i i just
think that based on your statements and
i don't think that like i said i don't
think there's all like
you know you're not like you don't have
any super narcissistic defense
mechanisms or anything like that
okay but um i'm trolling
but yeah i know i know so uh but
at the same time i do feel like
something about this feels incomplete to
me
so it's clear to me that you've really
explored yourself i think the way that
you know you answer these questions
about your grandfathers you're like
he wouldn't be ashamed he would be sad
and if you were more in the
self-loathing camp
then you would you would see shame for
him as opposed to sadness
does that make sense as you come to
process and accept some of your mistakes
and recognize that it's not entirely
your fault
you've forgiven yourself some i think
you sort of like move into sadness and
away from shame and self-blame
fine but something about all of this
stuff
and you even said it a little bit in the
middle is that you've looked around at
the outside world and you've
investigated
and then you realize you need to grow in
as a person and then like kind of make
the world sort of a better place but
what i see from you overwhelmingly is
still a lot of stuff
coming from you i don't think you're
done with yourself yet and i don't think
you're ready to fix the outside world
i think what you've got to do is focus
on fixing yourself
more you're just getting started or
you're halfway there
yeah i think that that you know
that i can agree with um
[Music]
i guess i'm having the hard a hard time
understanding
like what the pathway is to that or even
like
acknowledging i need like a step to
acknowledge
because because this is your
interpretation
of talking to me for x amount of time
right there's so much history and
experience and stuff
that if you knew me you'd be able to
make like oh okay i get it
right and so we're jumping a huge amount
of
we're building a huge amount of
assumptions here right
and so i'm trying to follow your your
path
but i don't know
i don't know this next leap you're
trying to make me
yeah i can't see it fine totally fair so
that's i'm not done so maybe i can i can
elusive okay sorry first question is
have you seen a therapist
yes do you see one now yes
is that helpful yes
great so i think that's fantastic
and i think you should continue doing
that okay
my point so so that's one thing the
second thing is that i think that
if if you're looking for a next step to
focus
more on yourself i think it's
beautifully you illustrated a
beautifully i feel this guilt because
you're not
you're not blind to yourself or anything
like that you actually understand your
inner parts
somewhat i think you just do this thing
where you like
you you quickly extrapolate and you move
outside of yourself and into the rest of
the world
into conversations with other people
into gaining information
and instead i think what you need to do
is kind of like what you
did just now is sort of like sit with
some of these
like thoughts and feelings and really
like think about that for a second
because what i found from you is is what
i saw what you showed us
is a wound that is still open and raw
yes that that wound
right is probably the only wound
that i have and i recognize that wound i
know it's there
i feel it every day right i
[Music]
you're like whoa what's going on yeah
yeah you're damn right you feel it every
day yeah
and i and the the problem
with the wound right
is that
i
part of that like closing that wound for
me
right is
[Music]
not going out and going back
into time to like try to
you know val like try to like seek
justice for it
right the uh george george george
buddy here's what i think okay filled
with assumptions
house of cards feel free to knock what
i'm about to say just
knock it over with a hammer do it you're
trying to fix that wound by fixing the
entire [ __ ] world
because it's a wound that you live with
every single day
and it hurts buddy and you see
something of the suffering out there
but i don't understand why you would go
about fixing the world
if you live with a gaping open wound on
a daily basis that hurts you on a daily
basis
oh uh i mean okay so
there is and maybe this is just like a
learned behavior
but i can still function
while hurting of course you can
right and i can still function up
so george why is it important why is it
important to
to to fix this wound this is exactly why
you haven't fixed it
because you can function in spite of it
but just because you can function in
spite of it just because you can keep
going doesn't mean that you don't owe it
to yourself
and and don't deserve a life where this
gaping wound
is like bleeding all the time okay it's
not about
function it's about getting better
though right it's either okay do you
want me to like just
fully on focus like resolve myself talk
to therapists only about this wound
and not do anything else in my life no
where are you getting that black and
whiteness
um have i said to you that you should
stop everything that you're doing in
your life and focus only on this
well well i do focus on the wound that's
what i i don't understand
like if i'm focusing on the wound and
i'm passionate about helping others
and also we i haven't even mentioned it
i want to build a game at some point
right cool um awesome but uh
that like i could i don't i guess i
don't understand
what you're what the action point of
this is i'm with you
and i'll get to it in a second so the
first thing is is that just the
acknowledgement that like you have this
wound
right that you carry with you on a
day-to-day basis and i acknowledge that
yep and what i'm saying i'm not saying
that you can't try to help other people
but what i'm saying is that
you shared with us your noble quest
which is like a noble one which is like
to you know help people who suffer in
the world
but i think that that comes ultimately
from you
right like it it's like and i think that
you should focus on
helping yourself which i know you do
because we've asked you right so this
once again i'm not saying you're not
doing it i think you're doing it like
halfway you're seeing a therapist and
that's like
the bread and butter right answer i
think practically
what that means is i i have a direction
for exploration for you
okay i've gotten answers yeah so you say
closing that wound means seeking justice
what did you say i thought you said
something like that
uh or okay
i think like justice is a part of it i
also think like just learning to like
love
other people and forgive other people
like that's
part of it too right um do you hate
no did you used to hate
no there's your [ __ ] problem
hey why would i want to hate someone
because they hurt you bro because they
stabbed you in the back
and if you're telling me that you've
never experienced hate
after all of these things that's the
emotion you're missing
i
missing hate
the way i i think about that
is why would i want
to breed more hate you're not
reading more yeah okay so so you respond
to it logically right so that's the
first thing
i'm not telling you to breed hate
but the problem is you can't let go of
something unless you realize you're
holding on to it
i'm not telling you to go out and be
mean to people what i'm telling you is
there's nothing about the outside world
i don't think it's good to act dominate
but i think it's good to recognize that
it's there
and to learn to let go but what i'm
hearing is that you've forgiven people
which because you're trying to be a good
person and in doing so you take a small
corner of yourself and you shove it to
the side
this is what i'm telling you man you're
like you're like a 50 there
but there's this whole other 50 and it
boggles my mind i don't know i don't
know what the [ __ ] happened with clg
but it sounds traumatic and terrible
and generally speaking when things like
that happen to people we experience a
whole range of emotions
pain suffering guilt hatred and
anger are in there bro
yeah i i definitely think i was angry
but i don't i try not
to hate people uh
yes i i i would say like if i were to
really speak
like how i'm feeling right now yeah i
feel
very misunderstood yep
and i don't know why that is
yeah so they're a couple great i'm so
happy you shared that
so here are the reasons that i think you
feel misunderstood
i think i'm tossing something out to you
which does not
fit that's why you feel misunderstood
right what i'm saying and your
understanding of things are clashing
of course you feel misunderstood i think
it's a completely normal way to feel
so here's the next step okay
i'm glad i mean i think it's normal and
i don't mean to invalidate you but what
i'm saying is that
that i think that there's a blind spot
in your vision
i would not like say that there isn't
right so then let me ask you something
when you point out a blind spot sure
when you point out a blind spot in
someone's vision
how would they feel um
[Music]
first they would get defensive usually
okay uh
and then they would have a hard time
comprehending it
misunderstood misunderstood
and then they would try to get to the
point that they understand it by
asking more questions or
they would try to explain themselves
further so that
they remove the blind spot i'm sorry it
reinforced the blind spot right
either you're going to try to understand
my perspective or you're going to
convince me of your perspective
either one fear okay you're going to try
it's just an issue of whether i'm
getting on your page or you're getting
on my page
got it but i think i think my goal
in this conversation is to not
is to a certain degree walk with where
you've gone
but i would like to help you too we have
the same quest we're on the same quest
okay and so what i'm trying to do for
you george in this
hour and a half which as you mentioned
is full of assumptions how much can i
really know how many details can i get
you're working with a therapist and all
that kind of good stuff is to point out
to you the possibility that like maybe
there's hatred
some buried somewhere deeply deeply in
your heart
and to consider for a moment that you're
someone who from a very young age
learned how to bury things underneath
rationalization
and have things sort of manifest in like
related but not directly
related ways
because like what did they do to you man
and how is that fair
it blows my mind that you're not angry
and hateful towards everything in the
universe and i get that you've done
some amount of work on that it's not
like those people are
bad people either right it's not
it's not like that you know it's not as
black and white as
they're terrible people oh
i completely believe that that is true
and usually when our feelings are very
active they don't think that
could you repeat that one more time yeah
so like i agree that like no one is all
bad and no one is all good
but that's a rational thought that's not
how feelings operate
like when feelings are active everything
is like
man that guy is just there's no
redeeming quality
for this karen uh
okay i see what i'm doing now i i see i
see what i'm doing
i i i'm
basically justifying
their behavior because i don't want to
confront the issue
that's a good way to put it that's right
because
because because if you confront it then
what happens
unless if you make them if you have an
understanding buddha-like perspective
towards all people in the human being in
the world and they hurt you what does
that allow you to do
uh sorry sorry i was just thinking about
that but it allows me to heal
i assume no no it allows you to not get
yeah sorry sorry
so like like if i'm like
so so if i sort of am like a tranquil
peaceful bunta
okay and i can see the duality of all
people and i can be
ever forgiving when someone hurts me
what does that let me do
someone hurts me what is that like it's
like kind of a weird question
but basically what it lets me do is not
get hurt
uh i see right because like
oh like they stabbed me and they stabbed
me in the back but like that's just the
nature
it's just the nature of the beast it's
not me it's just the nature of the beast
therefore like
there's nothing like fundamentally like
wrong with me
it can't be that there's any
fundamentally wrong with me because it's
just the nature of all things
i am just like a leaf in the the
river of time yeah yeah i i get the
analogy you're trying to make
right and um and like this is the really
wild thing which is that like i
i wonder if that's the same exact thing
that you did with your dad
which is that he's just a guy who's like
that therefore i don't have to be hurt
that he doesn't give a [ __ ] about me
because that's just what he is yeah and
it could be
like honestly it could be the thing is
i've been operating this
way my whole life at that in that
context
that
how the hell would ever i
ever be able to like see that blind spot
and how would people be
able to like really see it even if they
were to really get to know me
right like they wouldn't be able to
so i see that
blind spot a little bit now um
i don't okay i think you
see the logical
you're like detecting a black hole i'm
feeling it too i'm feeling okay
okay okay just a little bit a little bit
okay but my thinking is obviously
stronger than my feeling right like it's
agreed um next level thinker
yeah uh
okay that's impressive if you're feeling
it because you did a 180 pretty quick
yeah it's hard
what are you feeling
uh well i'm feeling confused i'm good
overwhelmingly um that's a good that's
actually
the best thing to feel i'm feeling a
little bit of anxiety
okay uh um
there's a little bit of sense of a
relief okay that
that i'm kind of like understanding it
um
[Music]
that that's where it stops right now i
need to think about this more and to be
able to fill it more
fantastic so so i think i think maybe
this is a good place to sort
of wrap up george because sure my goal
is to make people feel overwhelmingly
confused a little bit anxious and a
little bit relieved at the same time
when we know we've hit that that point
that's when we know we're
kind of at a good stop so let me explain
to you why confusion i think is very
good
so we live our life based on static
assumptions
about the way that we operate and those
assumptions tend to be
sometimes incorrect and tend to shoot us
in the foot and hold us back
oh yeah that's the process of
unchanging that staticness isn't to move
because
prior to like you had knowledge right
you had a conception of how the world
works
and then we want to bring you to like a
theory of better knowledge
but you don't move straight from
knowledge to knowledge you move from
knowledge through confusion to new
knowledge
yes there's confusion in the middle
there there's like hey wait a second
i thought that this build order was
excellent why did i lose
yeah so i think it's great that you feel
confused and that's a sign
when people are no longer rigid with
their thought structures
is when they grow yes of course i think
a big problem with the world is that we
try to avoid confusion
when in fact confusion for sure
i'm totally on that page so very
practically i think there are a couple
things that you could try to float by
your therapist and i think
in general you just need to do one thing
to start out i'm going to give you a
very very
simple exercise to do i'm going to try
to teach it to you now
in some way i have to figure that out
it's going to be something like
meditation
but literally george your first step
is just to acknowledge the full range of
emotions that you experience on a
day-to-day basis
yeah and because my guess is so it's
like very
normal for human beings to experience a
range of emotions
including hatred i'm not saying you
should cultivate hatred i'm not saying
you should feed hatred i'm not saying
you should
act on nature so don't take it that way
but what i'm just saying is that
unless you're like really really
different like chances are your brain
has evolved the way that everyone else's
brain has and generally speaking you
should have the capacity to feel hate
and unless you are enlightened buddha
you should probably be feeling some
amount of hatred somewhere
and if you go throughout your day and
you don't feel hatred
then that's kind of weird
so then you have to figure out okay like
why am i like
it's like color blindness for a
particular wavelength right
why is hatred absent in my mind
and then see if you can find it or just
start there
but just start with the observation of
what's the full range of emotions that
you're feeling
and i'm not saying that you should feel
them all equally so be careful about
like you know it's not equal
but can you find like hatred within
yourself
because like any normal human being
should
have hatred somewhere in there given
everything that you've described
hmm do you feel like hatred is
something that a lot of people hide yes
or no i think the one
very common emotion that people hide yes
so i think the people who show hatred
don't recognize that what they're
feeling is hatred and i think the people
that
feel hatred don't show it
okay my my my feelings line up with
you're getting somewhere with me now
but i'm still feel misunderstood
because i i know where you're coming
from no i i think i think the reason you
feel misunderstood is because you are
misunderstood
because i'm making assumptions and you
haven't given me the whole story and i'm
jumping into conclusions
yeah okay cool so i i i actually think
it's
very helpful and i think
that perspective is putting me in a
place where i'm
feeling more and thinking less which is
good
i sure so and i think i think
unfortunately
george that's just the nature of the
beast yeah
unless the more wrong i'm willing to be
and the more i'm willing to jump to
conclusions the more we can get done in
an hour and a half even though it's
wrong yeah
i'd rather i'd rather risk being wrong
to try to find something right
rather than move as methodically as
really we should
but that's what therapy is that's what
your therapist is for
so you shouldn't be misunderstood by
your therapist you should take this
hypothesis
because i'm not giving you a conclusion
let's be clear yeah what i'm giving some
time to explore
exactly the most i can offer you is a
hypothesis and i'm okay to
jump to formulate a hypothesis because
then the real answer is not
in constructing the perfect hypothesis
it's far more efficient to construct a
ass hypothesis once you get an inkling
of something and then test it
got it okay this is all this all makes
sense i guess
in in all of this one of the things that
i find interesting
and and i i don't know why but you don't
seem to
resonate with the idea or at least you
don't
feel i guess as much passion towards the
idea
that um
[Music]
almost not relatable in the sense of
like i'm
trying to relate with you sometimes
and you're almost being too much of
a doctor and not enough
as a person
yeah can you say more about that yeah
so i
tried i think
to open up to
relate to you in a way that like we
could find
some common ground um
and relate to experiences and i think we
had like a step at the start
but somewhere along the lines i was
trying to relate to you as a person
and you were speaking to me too much of
as a patient um and that
just feels weird um
it just
yeah i don't know how to i don't know
how else to say it
well thanks for sharing that with me i'm
not surprised you feel that way
can i think about that for a second yeah
i'm noticing a potential irony which is
that
i found myself saying things to i found
myself thinking things
to my thinking things that i would say
to my actual patients
that i withheld from our conversation
because i understood the scope of our
conversation to be somewhat different
from what i do with my patients
so that could explain it okay um
but at the end of the day i wonder do
you feel judged by me
maybe a little bit i i think what i
love about you is when you get into
these moments
where um you're not just
dr k right you're
you're a guy that gets
this space in the industry and
like you're very relatable um and
through that relatability i think
you really like connect with people on a
deeper level
um but i missed that a little bit
um this is a little bit or missed it a
lot
a little bit uh i appreciate
like the um
i appreciate like that you're trying to
help me i really do
like i i i'm just like i'm speaking out
loud right now
i appreciate something i don't normally
normally don't do i think it's great man
i'm really glad you're sharing this um
i'm gonna ask you a question sure i want
you to
really really think about it before you
answer
okay watch your first answer and then
really think about it
should i apologize no
you did you really think about it oh
sorry you said watch my first answer
okay
should you apologize should you
apologize
no
no because i set you up
for this
like
i literally said dissect me
so
okay watch what happens next okay you
ready
yup i'm sorry
why for judging you oh
for not listening for not relating
for treating you like a patient
thanks i'm sorry for not meeting you
for being superior for being analytical
for not walking the journey with you
i think that's
i think that's what is special about
what you do
um when you can do that
i think that's powerful
but yeah thank you for that apology
i think i i
either way i wouldn't have hard feelings
but that means a lot to me
okay all right george i'm sorry
okay so first of all
i just couldn't hold myself because you
said i wouldn't have hard feelings and
it's like buddy
when i i know i know you see you see
i'm sorry no no it's it's like you see
it though
let's look at it and laugh at the
absurdity of it yeah yeah i know i
didn't need to apologize how did you
feel when i did
it was nice why it was like
we connected as human beings but like
i needed to right yeah
yeah absolutely it's crazy
yeah it's it's crazy but
you this is
when you said no you don't need to you
became a buddha
an artificial buddha and you protected
yourself from the pain
yeah because i did you were wrong man
and then you wouldn't have hated me
either way
which is what i'm saying the [ __ ]
problem is and if if the
if the apology creates if an unnecessary
apology
creates that kind of emotional response
maybe the apology is necessary
maybe those people should have asked for
your forgiveness
maybe when other people wronged you you
should hold them responsible for it
okay you're [ __ ] right dude oh my god
i see it now
ah that's so painful and i do it and
i've seen it every now and then
right i do it i rationalize it i
i accept it i just you know like
roll with the punches bro like but i
don't take care of myself
yep and then that is going
to cause a massive problem later because
i'm going to just have that blind spot
and i i haven't even begin to feel or
think
about what that evolves into but i'm
sure it's not good
yeah so i'll say one last thing george
and i think you're pretty
your practice hand at this sure have
faith in yourself i think you can do it
man
thanks i think you've been working
really really hard to grow as a person
and that work is not in vain
and and it may feel like this is an
unclimbable mountain because you haven't
chosen to climb it yet but
don't confuse yourself you're good at
climbing mountains
this one is actually no different yeah
i'm confident i can climb mountains
um so but it does
help and it does mean a lot that you or
anyone for that matter
you know pushes you up that mountain
right
with support you know yeah sure cheers
you on
that's that's what we're here for man
and and that's what you're doing for
other people too
yeah maybe not perfectly
but i'm trying to dust yeah
which is all that you can do and no one
else can do it perfect either
right so george what i really respect
about you is that you give what you can
and it's not your fault that you you
didn't see the blind spot that's the
whole [ __ ]
that's what's a blind spot and now maybe
maybe it's there maybe is it isn't let's
be clear right so maybe the hypothesis
seems more likely now but it doesn't
necessarily
so test it i trust you i trust your
intellect i trust your reason
okay sweet okay i work through it with
your therapist
so generally speaking i teach meditation
but i think i i hope this makes sense
i think the i'm sorry exercise counts in
my mind
does that make sense yeah
okay i mean i've watched a lot of
different like
segments of yours so you don't need to
go through that process
yeah so i think i think you we actually
did it then that
i think is literally equivalent to
meditation because you saw what happened
in yourself you were looking inside
yourself you were paying attention it
wasn't an intellectual exercise
you noticed it and then you understood
afterwards
but overall george i i mean i think
you're just this has been amazing man i
think you're an amazing guy and i
i really i think you can do this
you can do this man and you deserve you
deserve to do it
for yourself rest of the world you'll
fix them later
that'll happen yeah you're right
cool good luck man i appreciate this
conversation thank you dude
yeah take care um take care bye bye